nutrients can also be brought up though
less predictably by rough weather
particularly near the polls huge storms
stir the depths and enrich the surface
waters and here in the South Atlantic
the seas are the roughest on the planet
and many rich sees they are - for here
the cold Falklands current from the
south
meets the warm Brazil current from the
north and at their junction there is
fooled in abundance
these black-browed albatross are duck
diving for krill that has been driven up
to the surface
like all Albatross black brows are
Wanderers across the face of the open
ocean
a feeding assembly on this scale is a
rare sight most of the time the birds of
the open sea are widely dispersed but
these feeding grounds are close to an
albatross breeding colony and a very
special
this is steeplechase on a remote island
and the far west of the Falklands it has
the largest albatross colony in the
world
there are almost half a million
albatross here an astonishing
demonstration of how fertile the ocean
can be and how much food it can give
even to creatures that do not actually
live in it
nutrients by themselves are not enough
to generate these vast assemblies the
heat and light that the Sun brings every
day is also essential for the growth of
the microscopic floating plants the
phytoplankton and it's the phytoplankton
that is the basis of all life in the
ocean